Selenium Client library - Selenium supports java, python, ruby. These are the client libraries that have APIs

JSON wire protocol - 

Browser drivers (FF, Chrome, Safari, IE, Opera driver) - We download driver and associate
without project with below code


WebDriver driver = new ChromeDriver();

driver.get("url");


----
SCL sends request to server/JSON wire protocol in the form of JSON over http.

SElenium
client    ----> JSON
library 

From JSON to browser driver over http

----

Entire code will be converted into JSON format with help of 

JSON wire protocol and sends to browser driver over http protocol

Browser driver will interact with browser over http protocol over https 


WebDriver driver  = new FirefoxDriver();
driver.get(https://www.softwaretestingmaterial.com)

Once you are ready with your script, you will click on Run to execute the program. 
Based on the above statements, Firefox browser will be launched 
and it will navigates to softwartestingmaterial website.


Here we see what will happen internally after you click on Run till the launch of Firefox browser.

Once you click on Run, 
every statement in your script will be converted as a URL with the help of JSON Wire Protocol over HTTP. 
The URL’s will be passed to the Browser Drivers. (In the above code, we took FirefoxDriver). 
Here in our case the client library (java) will convert the statements of the script to JSON format and communicates with the FirefoxDriver. 
URL looks as shown below.

http://localhost:8080/{"url":"https://www.softwaretestingmaterial.com"}


Every Browser Driver uses a HTTP server to receive HTTP requests.  
Once the URL reaches the Browser Driver, then the Browser Driver will pass that request to the real browser over HTTP. 
Then the commands in your selenium script will be executed on the browser

If the request is POST request then there will be an action on browser

If the request is a GET request then the corresponding response will be generated at the browser end 
and it will be sent over HTTP to the browser driver 
and the Browser Driver over JSON Wire Protocol 
and sends it to the UI (Eclipse IDE).